REGISTER 2

Control Bits
When Bits[C3:C1] are set to 010, Register 2 is programmed.
Figure 26 shows the input data format for programming this
register.
Low Noise and Low Spur Modes
The noise mode on the ADF4351 is controlled by setting
Bits[DB30:DB29] in Register 2 (see Figure 26). The noise mode
allows the user to optimize a design either for improved spurious
performance or for improved phase noise performance.
When the low spur mode is selected, dither is enabled. Dither
randomizes the fractional quantization noise so that it resembles
white noise rather than spurious noise. As a result, the part is
optimized for improved spurious performance. Low spur mode
is normally used for fast-locking applications when the PLL
closed-loop bandwidth is wide. Wide loop bandwidth is a loop
bandwidth greater than 1/10 of the RFOUT channel step resolu-
tion (fRES ). A wide loop filter does not attenuate the spurs to the
same level as a narrow loop bandwidth.
For best noise performance, use the low noise mode option.
When the low noise mode is selected, dither is disabled. This
mode ensures that the charge pump operates in an optimum
region for noise performance. Low noise mode is extremely
useful when a narrow loop filter bandwidth is available. The
synthesizer ensures extremely low noise, and the filter attenuates
the spurs. Figure 10 through Figure 12 show the trade-offs in a
typical W-CDMA setup for different noise and spur settings.
MUXOUT
The on-chip multiplexer is controlled by Bits[DB28:DB26]
(see Figure 26). Note that N counter output must be disabled
for VCO band selection to operate correctly.

Reference Doubler
Setting the DB25 bit to 0 disables the doubler and feeds the REFIN
signal directly into the 10-bit R counter. Setting this bit to 1 multi-
plies the REFIN frequency by a factor of 2 before feeding it into
the 10-bit R counter. When the doubler is disabled, the REFIN
falling edge is the active edge at the PFD input to the fractional
synthesizer. When the doubler is enabled, both the rising and
falling edges of REFIN become active edges at the PFD input.
When the doubler is enabled and the low spur mode is selected,
the in-band phase noise performance is sensitive to the REFIN duty
cycle. The phase noise degradation can be as much as 5 dB for
REFIN duty cycles outside a 45% to 55% range. The phase noise
is insensitive to the REFIN duty cycle in the low noise mode and
when the doubler is disabled.
The maximum allowable REFIN frequency when the doubler is
enabled is 30 MHz.
RDIV2
Setting the DB24 bit to 1 inserts a divide-by-2 toggle flip-flop
between the R counter and the PFD, which extends the maximum
REFIN input rate. This function allows a 50% duty cycle signal to
appear at the PFD input, which is necessary for cycle slip reduction.
10-Bit R Counter
The 10-bit R counter (Bits[DB23:DB14]) allows the input reference
frequency (REFIN) to be divided down to produce the reference
clock to the PFD. Division ratios from 1 to 1023 are allowed.
Double Buffer
The DB13 bit enables or disables double buffering of
Bits[DB22:DB20] in Register 4. For information about how
double buffering works, see the Program Modes section.
Charge Pump Current Setting
Bits[DB12:DB9] set the charge pump current. This value should
be set to the charge pump current that the loop filter is designed
with (see Figure 26).
Lock Detect Function (LDF)
The DB8 bit configures the lock detect function (LDF). The LDF
controls the number of PFD cycles monitored by the lock detect
circuit to ascertain whether lock has been achieved. When DB8 is
set to 0, the number of PFD cycles monitored is 40. When DB8
is set to 1, the number of PFD cycles monitored is 5. It is recom-
mended that the DB8 bit be set to 0 for fractional-N mode and
to 1 for integer-N mode.
Lock Detect Precision (LDP)
The lock detect precision bit (Bit DB7) sets the comparison
window in the lock detect circuit. When DB7 is set to 0, the
comparison window is 10 ns; when DB7 is set to 1, the window
is 6 ns. The lock detect circuit goes high when n consecutive
PFD cycles are less than the comparison window value; n is set
by the LDF bit (DB8). For example, with DB8 = 0 and DB7 = 0,
40 consecutive PFD cycles of 10 ns or less must occur before
digital lock detect goes high.

Rev. A | PageADF4351

For fractional-N applications, the recommended setting for
Bits[DB8:DB7] is 00; for integer-N applications, the recom-
mended setting for Bits[DB8:DB7] is 11.
Phase Detector Polarity
The DB6 bit sets the phase detector polarity. When a passive
loop filter or a noninverting active loop filter is used, this bit
should be set to 1. If an active filter with an inverting charac-
teristic is used, this bit should be set to 0.
Power-Down (PD)
The DB5 bit provides the programmable power-down mode.
Setting this bit to 1 performs a power-down. Setting this bit to 0
returns the synthesizer to normal operation. In software power-
down mode, the part retains all information in its registers. The
register contents are lost only if the supply voltages are removed.
When power-down is activated, the following events occur:
Synthesizer counters are forced to their load state conditions.
VCO is powered down.
Charge pump is forced into three-state mode.
Digital lock detect circuitry is reset.
RFOUT buffers are disabled.
Input registers remain active and capable of loading and
latching data.
Charge Pump Three-State
Setting the DB4 bit to 1 puts the charge pump into three-state
mode. This bit should be set to 0 for normal operation.
Counter Reset
The DB3 bit is the reset bit for the R counter and the N counter
of the ADF4351. When this bit is set to 1, the RF synthesizer
N counter and R counter are held in reset. For normal opera-
tion, this bit should be set to 0.


REGISTER 3

Control Bits
When Bits[C3:C1] are set to 011, Register 3 is programmed.
Figure 27 shows the input data format for programming this
register.
Band Select Clock Mode
Setting the DB23 bit to 1 selects a faster logic sequence of band
selection, which is suitable for high PFD frequencies and is
necessary for fast lock applications. Setting the DB23 bit to 0 is
recommended for low PFD (<125 kHz) values. For the faster
band select logic modes (DB23 set to 1), the value of the band
select clock divider must be less than or equal to 254.
Antibacklash Pulse Width (ABP)
Bit DB22 sets the PFD antibacklash pulse width. When Bit DB22
is set to 0, the PFD antibacklash pulse width is 6 ns. This setting is
recommended for fractional-N use. When Bit DB22 is set to 1,
the PFD antibacklash pulse width is 3 ns, which results in phase
noise and spur improvements in integer-N operation. For
fractional-N operation, the 3 ns setting is not recommended.

Charge Cancelation
Setting the DB21 bit to 1 enables charge pump charge cancel-
ation. This has the effect of reducing PFD spurs in integer-N
mode. In fractional-N mode, this bit should be set to 0.
CSR Enable
Setting the DB18 bit to 1 enables cycle slip reduction. CSR is
a method for improving lock times. Note that the signal at the
phase frequency detector (PFD) must have a 50% duty cycle for
cycle slip reduction to work. The charge pump current setting
must also be set to a minimum. For more information, see the
Cycle Slip Reduction for Faster Lock Times section.
Clock Divider Mode
Bits[DB16:DB15] must be set to 10 to activate phase resync
(see the Phase Resync section). These bits must be set to 01
to activate fast lock (see the Fast Lock Timer and Register
Sequences section). Setting Bits[DB16:DB15] to 00 disables
the clock divider (see Figure 27).
12-Bit Clock Divider Value
Bits[DB14:DB3] set the 12-bit clock divider value. This value
is the timeout counter for activation of phase resync (see the
Phase Resync section). The clock divider value also sets the
timeout counter for fast lock (see the Fast Lock Timer and
Register Sequences section).


================================================

FAST LOCK LOOP FILTER TOPOLOGY
To use fast lock mode, the damping resistor in the loop filter is
reduced to one-fourth its value while in wide bandwidth mode.
To achieve the wider loop filter bandwidth, the charge pump
current increases by a factor of 16; to maintain loop stability,
the damping resistor must be reduced by a factor of one-fourth.
To enable fast lock, the SW pin is shorted to the AGND pin by
setting Bits[DB16:DB15] in Register 3 to 01. The following two
topologies are available:

 The damping resistor (R1) is divided into two values
(R1 and R1A) that have a ratio of 1:3 (see Figure 31).

 An extra resistor (R1A) is connected directly from SW, as
shown in Figure 32. The extra resistor is calculated such
that the parallel combination of the extra resistor and the
damping resistor (R1) is reduced to one-fourth the original
value of R1 (see Figure 32).
ADF4351
 R2
CPOUT
 VCO
C1
 C2
 C3
R1
SW
R1A
Figure 31. Fast Lock Loop Filter Topology 1
8
10-00890ADF4351
R2
CPOUT
 VCO
C1
 C2
 C3
R1A
 R1
SW
Figure 32. Fast Lock Loop Filter Topology 2
9
10-00890SPUR MECHANISMS
This section describes the three different spur mechanisms that
arise with a fractional-N synthesizer and how to minimize them
in the ADF4351.
Fractional Spurs
The fractional interpolator in the ADF4351 is a third-order
Σ-Δ modulator with a modulus (MOD) that is programmable
to any integer value from 2 to 4095. In low spur mode (dither
on), the minimum allowable value of MOD is 50. The Σ-Δ
modulator is clocked at the PFD reference rate (fPFD), which
allows PLL output frequencies to be synthesized at a channel
step resolution of fPFD/MOD.
ADF4351
In low noise mode (dither off), the quantization noise from the
Σ-Δ modulator appears as fractional spurs. The interval between
spurs is fPFD/L, where L is the repeat length of the code sequence
in the digital Σ-Δ modulator. For the third-order Σ-Δ modulator
used in the ADF4351, the repeat length depends on the value of
MOD (see Table 7).
Table 7. Fractional Spurs with Dither Off (Low Noise Mode)
Repeat
MOD Value (Dither Off)
 Length
 Spur Interval
MOD is divisible by 2, but not by 3
 2 × MOD
 Channel step/2
MOD is divisible by 3, but not by 2
 3 × MOD
 Channel step/3
MOD is divisible by 6
 6 × MOD
 Channel step/6
MOD is not divisible by 2, 3, or 6
 MOD
 Channel step
In low spur mode (dither on), the repeat length is extended
to 221 cycles, regardless of the value of MOD, which makes the
quantization error spectrum look like broadband noise. This
may degrade the in-band phase noise at the PLL output by as
much as 10 dB. For lowest noise, dither off is a better choice,
particularly when the final loop bandwidth is low enough to
attenuate even the lowest frequency fractional spur.
Integer Boundary Spurs
Another mechanism for fractional spur creation is the inter-
actions between the RF VCO frequency and the reference
frequency. When these frequencies are not integer related (the
purpose of a fractional-N synthesizer), spur sidebands appear
on the VCO output spectrum at an offset frequency that corre-
sponds to the beat note, or difference frequency, between an
integer multiple of the reference and the VCO frequency. These
spurs are attenuated by the loop filter and are more noticeable
on channels close to integer multiples of the reference, where
the difference frequency can be inside the loop bandwidth (thus
the name integer boundary spurs).
Reference Spurs
Reference spurs are generally not a problem in fractional-N
synthesizers because the reference offset is far outside the loop
bandwidth. However, any reference feedthrough mechanism
that bypasses the loop may cause a problem. Feedthrough of
low levels of on-chip reference switching noise, coupling to the
VCO, can result in reference spur levels as high as −80 dBc. The
PCB layout must ensure adequate isolation between VCO circuitry
and the input reference to avoid a possible feedthrough path on
the board.
